Previously on Battlestar Galactica.
Ignoring me
won't help.
No, I've decided you're an
expression of my subconscious mind...
playing itself out
in my waking states.
So, I'm only
in your head?
Of course if you're not
really here, neither am I.
Do you have any idea what they
would do to me if they find out?
They'd probably
charge you with treason.
Treason is punishable
by the death penalty.
Come on, Sharon.
Where are you?
Where are you, Sharon?
Helo!
We gotta go. Right now.
I don't see
the hand of God in here.
Could I be looking
in the wrong place?
Let me see. Proteins? Yes.
Hemoglobin? Yes.
Divine digits?
No.
Sorry. I'm sure
I can find evidence...
of his divine hand in some of
these delightful little samples.
After all,
there are so fracking many...
I'm sure even I can be relied
upon to find God in one of them.
What is it that drives
you to blasphemy, Gaius?
A need to tempt fate?
Boredom, actually.
Indeed, every
waking hour is spent...
in what some might say, has
become my own personal religion.
The Church
of the Mystic Cylon Detector.
Well...
are you finished?
If you would give yourself
over to God's will...
you'd find peace
in his love like I have.
Could you help me
with this zipper?
I'm having
a bit of trouble.
He has a plan for us.
How do you know it's a he?
There is only
one true God.
Really?
You running a glitch
in the program or something?
'Cause you say the same thing
over and over again.
Now, I've accepted
your God and all that.
Can't we reboot
the hard drive?
He's not my God.
He is God.
Yeah, your God,
my God, everyone's God.
He's big enough for all of us,
isn't he? Now, please.
Please, honey.
Can't we do something
a little more elevating?
It's important you form a
personal relationship with God.
Only you can give yourself
over to his eternal love.
For God's sake!
I can't take this anymore!
I'm trying to save
your immortal soul.
What you are doing, darling, is boring me
to death with your superstitious drivel.
Your metaphysical
nonsense...
which, to be fair, actually appeals
to the half-educated dullards...
that make up most of human society,
but which, I hasten to add...
no rational, intelligent, free-thinking
human being truly believes.
Which leads me to the
inescapable conclusion...
that Cylons are,
in the final...
That Cylons are, in the final
analysis, little more than toasters...
with great-looking legs.
It's my fantasy.
See if I care.
I'll dream up
someone new maybe...
a brunette maybe.
Maybe we can dispense with the
foreplay. Get right down to...
What did you say?
That was nothing. I was
just talking to myself.
I talk to myself.
Hang me.
The Commander would like
to see you in the CIC, Doctor.
There you are.
Very nice.
That blouse could open up
a button or two. Excuse me?
You wanted to see me,
Commander?
Miss Godfrey has brought...
some very disturbing
accusations to my attention.
I think you should have the
chance to answer them in person.
Right. Thank you.
And she is?
She's standing right there.
I'm right here.
Yeah, of course you are.
Doctor, this is
Miss Godfrey.
All of you can see her?
You can all see her!
She's standing
right next to you.
Something wrong?
No.
Don't make me angry, Gaius. I'd
say you have a serious problem.
Get down.
Yes, maybe I...
You'll have to forgive me,
Miss Godfrey.
I'm very pleased, if slightly
puzzled, to make your acquaintance.
Don't touch me,
you traitor.
Is she talking to me?
You talking to me?
You're the one who let the
Cylons into the defense mainframe.
You betrayed
your entire race.
You're the man responsible
for the Holocaust...
and I'm here to see
that you're exposed...
and sentenced to death
as the traitor you really are.
Doctor, Miss Godfrey has made
some startling accusations.
I've never seen this woman
before in my life.
I'm not surprised
you don't remember me.
I was just a lowly systems
analyst at the Defense Ministry.
Dr. Amarak
was my associate.
She says you sold out the human race.
That you let the Cylons
into our defense plans.
Dr. Amarak told me
he had evidence...
that Dr. Baltar was
involved in the sneak attack.
He was trying to reach the President
and give her that information...
when he was killed.
He told you that, did he?
Yes, as a matter of fact.
It's a pity he's no longer with us.
How convenient that we only
have your word for that.
There's also this.
Yeah, what the frack's that?
He gave me this for safekeeping.
It's ID coded.
Colonial
Defense Ministry.
Dr. Amarak gave the disk
to me before he died.
What, as opposed to
after he died?
Amarak gave the
disk to me for safekeeping.
On the disk is a photo.
It was captured from
the security camera...
in the defense mainframe
on Caprica.
It shows the doctor
entering the mainframe...
without permission
the day before the attack.
Nothing criminal about that.
As you can see, the man in the photo
is carrying an explosive device.
Sorry, he's what?
He's...
I definitely
never did that.
Just before the Cylon attack,
the entire defense mainframe...
was destroyed by this device.
Honestly, that is not me. I
wasn't there. It's somebody else.
Look, it's not me. I'm not
the man in the photograph.
I see a man.
Same height, same build...
but that's a long way
from proof, Miss Godfrey.
Thank you, Commander. Now, if we're
quite done with this charade, I'm...
I agree, Commander,
but look here.
In the faceplate of
the computer terminal...
there's a reflection
of the man's face.
You can't tell
anything from that.
Thank you, Colonel.
With the right equipment, the image
could be enlarged and sharpened.
We could see
his face.
Enlarging the image is no
problem, but sharpening it...
Take forever.
It'd take
at least a day, sir.
Mr. Gaeta, let me know
as soon as you have an image.
Sir.
I'm going to suspend all work
on the Cylon detector...
What?
...as well as
your security privileges.
Starbuck's notes on
the Cylon Raider are a mess.
She said "the engine power-up sequence
began by squeezing something...
"that looks like a red ligament
with blue veins on the right side...
"coming out of
a sack of gooey fluid...
"shaped like a dog. "
Are you kidding me?
This whole thing is a bunch of
veins and ligaments and sacks of goo.
"Squeeze the
ligament with your hand...
"while you slide
your weight...
"on your left hip
into the lymphatic sack. "
That's just stupid.
Afternoon, sir.
Specialist.
Chief's inside?
Yeah.
Chief.
God! Yes, sir?
How's it
coming in there?
I'm getting there, sir.
I haven't quite figured out all
the tricks, but I'm getting there.
Come on,
Starbuck, you can do it.
That smarts.
That smarts,
but I don't care.
You don't care.
I don't care, because your
pain is my entertainment.
Your crutches of death, sir.
Use them wisely.
Shut up.
It's gonna hurt like hell,
but it's supposed to.
Thanks, Doc.
No pain,
no gain.
No clichŽ
left unturned...
as Kara Thrace returns to
the world of the walking.
Can she do it or will
she fall on her ass?
I swear to the Gods, I'm gonna
beat the crap out of both of you...
as soon as
I get better.
No, I can't.
Yes, you can. You did it.
I can't.
You're not gonna get better
lying on your back.
Frack off!
Just take a break for five
minutes, we'll try again.
I don't want to do it again.
I want a pill, now, please.
Sorry, we're weaning you off
the magic pills starting today.
And, besides,
I need them for myself.
You son of a bitch.
I am finding this whole
thing hard to fathom, Doctor.
Thank you, Madam President.
I can't tell you
how much that means to me.
Look, I was wondering,
is there any chance...
that while this investigation is going on,
I could come back to the Colonial One...
because I've left
some of my things there.
No, I'm sorry, Doctor.
You have been put on
a "no fly" list. Security.
Madam President,
I need to get off Galactica.
I need to get away from this
Shelly Godfrey woman in particular.
She's got it in for me.
Where are you?
Madam President,
I have reason to believe...
that she may be a Cylon.
Madam President?
Hello?
Get on the wireless. Get Doc Cottle over
here now. The President has collapsed.
Hello?
Is she alive?
Yes, the President is alive.
I told you, she's conscious,
she's resting.
She's receiving treatment.
What kind of treatment?
Asked and answered.
We think it's a stomach flu.
What kind of treatment?
How many of these
did you take, young lady?
One?
Two?
Two.
Three.
Three times the dosage.
Must work three times
as fast then, right?
Everybody wants to be their own doctor,
you are lucky you didn't lapse into a coma.
You can't cure cancer
by overdose.
Story's all over the fleet.
I'm so sorry.
It's okay.
It seemed like
an emergency.
I didn't think that anyone might
be picking up the transmission.
We're all new at this.
It's okay.
The thing to do now
is to get me on my feet...
and in front of the press
before the end of the day.
I could give you a shot, but you
wouldn't like the side effects.
Just do it.
You know...
the time is going to come when you are
not able to hide what you're going through.
It's not that kind of a shot.
Thank you.
Baltar's correct about
the convenience of it all.
Amarak just happens
to bring you...
the key piece of evidence
just before he dies.
Something was going on.
He was almost paranoid.
Kept saying that the Olympic Carrier
had been infiltrated by the Cylons.
He wanted me to take some things
off the ship for safekeeping.
Why'd he give it to you?
We were friends.
Friends?
I loved him.
I loved him very much.
There are times
when I just feel so alone now.
Times when I just want so much
to be held again.
You understand that,
don't you?
Of course.
There must be times
when you feel alone.
And the thought of another
body next to yours...
seems like
something out of dream.
Do not,
under any circumstances...
allow Shelly Godfrey
to leave this ship.
Put her under
surveillance, discreetly.
I want to know everybody she's
talked to, and everywhere she's been.
Come on, Sharon! Get up.
Excuse me.
Lieutenant? Is that you?
Doctor?
Isn't this a coincidence.
So, how are you doing?
I'm...
You're busy.
Yes, I know.
I don't mean to distract you.
Please, don't let me interrupt you.
You still there?
Yup.
I know this is
an awkward time.
But it occurs to me
I haven't told you...
how invaluable your assistance has
been to me over the past few weeks.
Thank you, Doctor. You have no
idea how much that means to me.
Not at all.
So how's it going
over there?
In the lab, that is. I'm
talking about the photograph.
Right.
It's coming along...
quite quickly, actually.
A few more hours to go.
Has it ever occurred to you
that the photograph...
the disk itself
could be a fake?
I've already
authenticated the disk.
Obviously, you're quite good. But
there are many ways around security.
If I could join you in the lab for
just two minutes of your time...
I could show you.
I really don't think
that's possible.
Listen to me, nobody would need to
know. It would just be you and me.
I know.
For God's sake, my life is on the
line. My reputation is at stake.
So is mine, Doctor.
I really...
Someone's coming.
Wait, Gaeta! You forgot
to wash your hands!
What the hell...
I want answers,
and I want them now!
I'm not interested in playing
any more of your stupid games!
Have you lost your mind? That's
an interesting question...
one I pose to myself
on a regular basis.
Now tell me. Who's
really in the photograph?
You are!
I didn't plant any bomb, anywhere,
at any time, and you know that.
I don't know anything of this
sort. Now, if you'll excuse me.
All right. Let's entertain the
notion, just for a moment...
that you are not the woman
that I see everywhere.
You are not Shelly Godfrey,
either.
You're a fake.
You're just a copy.
Another Cylon copy.
Get out.
Struck a nerve, have I? Which I
find rather impossible to believe!
You think this is over?
This is not over!
You have not heard the last.
No more Mr. Nice Gaius!
Women.
Stupid. Unbelievable.
Frack it!
Not a good time?
No, it's fine.
Guess you're having problems?
I just can't get
this thing to work.
I've been over it and over it,
and nothing.
I have no idea how Starbuck
got this thing to move.
Much less fly.
It's not really a thing,
you know.
It's probably
a Cylon itself.
More of an animal maybe,
than the human models.
Maybe they genetically
design it to perform a task.
To be a fighter.
Can't treat it like a thing
and expect it to respond.
You have to treat it
like a pet.
At least that's my guess.
Your guess?
Yeah, that's right.
My guess.
Something else
you want to say?
No.
Lieutenant. I heard you were
supposed to be up on your feet by now.
You heard wrong.
I figured you
wouldn't bounce back so fast.
Is there something you wanted, or did
you just drop by to torment me, sir?
Yeah. The Chief wanted me
to kick your ass out of bed...
so you could help figure
out that Raider of yours.
But, clearly,
you still need the rest.
Take your time.
No rush.
Do you actually think that reverse
psychology crap is going to work on me?
I really don't care
what you think, Lieutenant.
All I know is that every day
you spend in that bed...
is another day that I have my
opinion of you confirmed. As you were.
And I am convinced, in fact,
that she is a Cylon agent.
In my opinion, she should be locked
up before she can do any more damage.
Where are you?
You're having
a little fun, eh?
Do you enjoy messing around
with my life?
Do you have any
evidence to support this charge?
Work on the Cylon detector
is nearly complete.
With a few tweaks here and there,
I'll have a test regime up and running.
All I need is a tissue sample
from this woman for analysis.
I thought we had something.
Something special.
I can't allow you
access to your equipment.
All right.
But under instruction, I can surely
tell Gaeta how to prepare the samples.
It's not difficult.
Let me be frank with you,
Doctor.
If your picture is
on that photograph...
every piece of equipment in your laboratory
will be dismantled and quarantined.
And every person that you have met
will be questioned and investigated.
I love you.
There, I've said it.
Isn't that what
you've been dying to hear?
I am willing to make that
commitment to you right now.
The President believes
I'm innocent.
The President hopes you're
innocent. And so do I.
Because if you're not, then
you've made fools of both of us.
And I don't like
to be made a fool of.
And I don't like to be accused
of participating...
in the genocide of the human
race based solely on the word...
of a woman whom I have already indicated
to you may well be a Cylon agent.
I'm willing to do anything.
Anything at all.
I need your help.
I did not conspire
with the Cylons.
I am an innocent man...
who is being convicted in the court
of public opinion without trial.
Traitor.
Fire. All hands
report to damage control stations.
We got a fire!
Let's go. Clear the doors!
Frack!
No fires reported anywhere
on the ship, Commander.
The exact location of the alarm.
D- Wing corridor
where it intersects with C-Wing.
That's the lab.
Erase.
Put it down!
Put it down.
All right, move in.
Take him to the Brig.
Yes, Commander.
I would like to speak
to my attorney.
Can't I speak to my attorney?
I need some representation,
it's not what it looks like.
She's got it in for me,
that Shelly Godfrey!
Hey.
Shut up.
All of you.
Not one single word
from any of you, okay?
What seems to be
the problem?
Your new boyfriend's
a bit of a jerk, sir.
It's a girl.
If you don't mind her goo on
your face, she's all yours, sir.
Okay.
He likes
the warm light.
Makes the touch
easier, right?
Maybe, okay.
This is stupid.
It's worth a try, sir.
It did fly for you once.
Hasn't made so much
as a grunt since.
Maybe, I don't
know, take it for a ride.
Ride it.
Treat it like a horse.
Okay, a horse.
Why not a goat?
That's good, right?
Think of it as a goat.
Okay. Whatever.
Come on, boy. Giddyup!
Come on.
Okay, you're kidding.
Chief?
Don't shoot anything.
Doctor.
Madam President.
I am so sorry.
Thank you.
You are here to free me,
right?
To bring this travesty
to a close...
because you know I'm innocent.
Just tell me,
so I understand...
because I want to understand
why. Why you did it.
I didn't do it. It wasn't me.
I'm being framed!
Why would she do that?
Because she's a Cylon.
She's a Cylon.
You are going to have
to believe me.
I want to believe you.
I want to believe that I haven't made
such a profound error in judgment...
in trusting you...
and asking your advice.
But here's where
we are, Doctor.
If anyone
can be a Cylon...
and it's hard
to tell us apart...
then we only have
one thing left to trust:
our instincts,
feelings.
And the moment they told me it
was your face in the photo...
I knew I believed it.
I believe you're involved
in the attack.
Somehow.
I feel it.
You'll forgive me,
Madam President...
if I don't wish
to be executed...
based solely
on your gut feeling.
May the gods
have mercy on your soul.
Call it.
Heads.
Heads. You win.
You sleep. I watch.
No. You're the one
who needs sleep.
I couldn't sleep if I had to listen
to Tyrol read the flight manual.
Okay.
Truth is if something
happened to you...
I wouldn't know how
to deal with it.
I feel the same way.
Back on the ship...
I knew what was going on. I
mean, between you and the Chief.
I think everybody did.
And I respected it.
Your feelings, his.
But I would've given
anything to be him.
I'm not trying to
put you on the spot here.
I don't want to step
in what you two have.
You feel the way you feel
and I have to respect it.
No. It's not true.
I know that we
haven't spoken before.
And I don't wish to offend.
Please.
Dear God...
and I now acknowledge
that you are the one true God.
Deliver me from this evil...
and I will devote the rest of
what is left of my wretched life...
to doing good.
I don't know what to...
To carry out your divine will,
is what I want to do.
To carry out your divine will.
Grant me
grace and forgiveness.
I'm here now.
I'm here.
All will be well. It will
be as God wants it to be.
Open the door.
Wait. I haven't even
had a trial yet.
No! Wait!
It's a lie!
Doctor, it's all right.
The photograph was a fake.
What?
It was almost seamless,
but your face...
the man, the reflection,
it was all a fake.
But of course it was a fake.
I'd never wear a shirt like that.
How did you...
I went back, I re-ran
all the security checks.
This time I found markers which
pointed to photo manipulation.
They weren't apparent until
the photo was fully resolved.
You re-ran
the security checks?
Thank you.
I just knew that you could never
have anything to do with that attack.
You're not
that kind of man.
It was really nothing. Once the
photos were fully resolved...
it was almost too easy, like
she wanted to be found out.
How did she get off of the ship? Got me.
There's been no ships coming
or going. I gave you an order.
I had two Marines
tailing her.
They say they went around
a corner and she was gone.
Every ship in the fleet has reported
in, sir. There's no sign of her.
That's unacceptable. She
was here. She was right here.
This woman existed.
She didn't just vanish.
Have them check again.
Every ship? Every ship,
including this one.
She didn't just vanish.
... that he had been
a victim of treachery and deceit.
Clearly, the Cylons wanted
to discredit Dr. Baltar...
because of his work
on the Cylon detector.
Dr. Baltar, it gives
me great pleasure...
to exonerate
you publicly...
and to recognize you,
once again, among us...
as a scientist,
a leader, and a friend.
You're a hero.
You're even more popular
and powerful than ever before.
You've had your trial by fire,
so now they truly believe in you.
Hard for anyone to accuse
you of treason again.
Was that the plan
all along?
Build me up in the public mind
by first tearing me down?
Right.
Who am I to question the plans
of almighty God?
Just one, small,
practical question.
Shelly? Shelly Godfrey?
Was there ever a woman
really called Shelly Godfrey?
Did she ever actually exist?
Was she ever really here?
God's will be done.